Welcome back everyone to a few challenged tasks concerning time stance and extract that we just learned
about.
So we're just gonna give you two tasks for you to answer and it's always we'll go ahead and give you
the expected result.
The hints and the solution so your first task is to answer the following during which months that payments
occur and also format your answer to return back the full month name.
OK so let's go ahead and see the expected result so the expected results are these four months we should
see payments happening in March may February and April.
Coming up next are some hints
so the hints is that you do not actually need to use extract for this query.
So keep that in mind if you're having trouble figuring it out with the extract function.
See if you can use something else we learned about in the previous lectures.
In order to get your answer in here comes an example solution so our solution is to say select and then
we're we're going to do here is we'll do the following we'll go ahead and grab the payment date and
then grab the month from that payment date as a string by saying to character.
And if you just run that then you'll have a bunch of rows listing the full month name and then we can
just select a distinct month names and from the payment table you have your answer.
So again our example solution is to simply convert the payment date to a month long string and then
we can select a distinct month represented time for your next task so your next task is how many payments
occurred on a Monday.
Something to note here is I didn't show you exactly how to grab something like a Monday or a Tuesday
or a day of the week.
But I do want you to be able to either use the documentation online or just a quick Google search in
order to figure this out.
So we're trying to push you in order to be able to use the different resources available for you online
in order to answer real world questions.
So again the task is how many payments occurred on a Monday and here is the expected result to the expected
result is two thousand nine hundred and forty eight payments occurred on a Monday and then here comes
Simmons so the hint is for this one I would recommend using extract.
And if you're stuck on what the keyword is for day of week I would tell you to search the documentation
or google around for d o w as a keyword.
And the last thing to consider is that Postgres sequel considers Sunday as the start of the week and
it's indexed at 0 so 0 corresponds to Sunday and then one corresponds to Monday.
OK.
Here comes our solution so our solution is to simply select count everything or asterisk.
And then from the payment table where and we're going to say extract the day of week from the payment
date where it is equal to 1.
Because if you extract DSW from payment date that will give you back the numerical day of the week.
So zero Sunday one Monday et cetera.
And we're only considering the days of the week that are Monday.
So we say where this is equal to 1 and then we count how many rows are available after that.
Okay.
So that's it for your quick challenge tasks.
If you have any questions feel free to post the CUNY forums we'll see you at the next lecture.